Still with me? You are now really the kings of outputting data and listening to events.
With that, we got a lot of things covered,
you will use a lot in your day to day applications, listening to user input and outputting transform
data or whatever data really is a core task you'll well have in all your applications and which really
makes up most of your applications, at least when it comes to this frontend connection, so to rendering
it in the browser.
But there is one other piece you will also use a lot and that is changing the styling, attaching css classes.
Look at this example on the right here,
I got three divs here which are gray blocks by default because I set up this demo css class,
no vuejs code involved here at all,
yes I have setup this element connection but I'm not doing anything there
as you can clearly tell. Now it would be interesting to see how we can attach classes to these divs.
So let's quickly create three new css classes,
a red class which will set the background color to you guessed it, red and then copying this class, a
green class which does the same with
well surprisingly green
and then the blue class which does the same with blue,
so now we get three new css classes here which we can use in our application.
Now of course I could attach it like that but that would be pretty boring right,
let's instead see what vuejs can do for us,
let's start simple and say I want to attach this red block
only if I click on this element and detach it
if I click again. To be able to well show this, I'll add my data property to the view instance which is
hooked up to this code which has this as a template
and here, I will set up a new property,
I'll name it attach red and initially I'll set it to false, to say no I don't want to attach it initially.
Upon clicking on it,
I want to set attach red to
well what it currently is not, so to the opposite, with this exclamation mark,
I'm basically switching it from true to false
and the other way around.
Now this is nice,
I'll just split this up over multiple lines so that it's easier to read but that alone won't do anything
as of now. In order to conditionally attach a css class,
I need to bind to the class property here and I can do this with colon class,
notice that it doesn't matter that I alredy attach class here with the demo, with colon class.
I'm using vuejs syntax and I'm not reusing the class attribute here.
Yes I'm binding to it
but behind the scenes, vuejs will merge this all into one class object.
So here, I need to pass a javascript object as an argument,
this is just what vuejs expects here
and this object should be which css class has a key,
should I attach and has a value, should I attach it or not,
so true or false.
Now here I clearly want to attach the red css class,
so red like this,
you could also enclose it in single quotation marks and you would need to do this if your class contains
a special character like a dash but since it doesn't here, I don't have to
and then the condition will be attach red which is false initially but could be true. If I now hit control
enter,
you see I can now turn on and off this red class here due to this single code, this single line of
code here where I set up my red class as a key here referring to this css property and connect it
to attach red
which is true or false and switch constantly by clicking on this div.
Of course I could now copy that and also add it to another div and if I now save this,
now both are of course switched on and off because they share the same property, attach red which
is the one well deciding on whether it should be attached or not.